---
layout: post
title: Android Activities life recycle
---

#Activities

The window typically fills the screen, but may be smaller than the screen and float on top of other windows.

An application usually consists of multiple activities that are loosely bound to each other. 
Each activity can then start another activity in order to perform different actions.
Each time a new activity starts, the previous activity is stopped, but the system preserves the activity in a stack (the "back stack"). 

##Creating an Activity
To create an activity, you must create a subclass of Activity (or an existing subclass of it). In your subclass, you need to implement callback methods that the system calls when the activity transitions between various states of its lifecycle.

Two most important method:
onCreate():  you must call setContentView() to define the layout for the activity's user interface.
onPause():  The system calls this method as the first indication that the user is leaving your activity. This is usually where you should commit any changes that should be persisted beyond the current user session.

###Implementing a user interface
You can set the layout as the UI for your activity with setContentView(), passing the resource ID for the layout.
The user interface for an activity is provided by a hierarchy of views—objects derived from the View class.
Or you can create your own View, ViewGroup. 

###Declaring the activity in the manifest
<manifest ... >
  <application ... >
      <activity android:name=".ExampleActivity" />
      ...
  </application ... >
  ...
</manifest >

###Using intent filters
An <activity> element can also specify various intent filters—using the <intent-filter> element—in order to declare how other application components may activate it.
<activity android:name=".ExampleActivity" android:icon="@drawable/app_icon">
    <intent-filter>
        <action android:name="android.intent.action.MAIN" />
        <category android:name="android.intent.category.LAUNCHER" />
    </intent-filter>
</activity>
An Intent is a messaging object you can use to request an action from another app component. 

##Starting an Activity
You can start another activity by calling startActivity(), passing it an Intent that describes the activity you want to start. The intent specifies either the exact activity you want to start or describes the type of action you want to perform (and the system selects the appropriate activity for you, which can even be from a different application). An intent can also carry small amounts of data to be used by the activity that is started.

For example, here's how one activity starts another activity named SignInActivity:(within one application)
	Intent intent = new Intent(this, SignInActivity.class);
	startActivity(intent);

You can create an intent that describes an action you want to perform and the system launches the appropriate activity from another application. Send email:
	Intent intent = new Intent(Intent.ACTION_SEND);
	intent.putExtra(Intent.EXTRA_EMAIL, recipientArray);
	startActivity(intent);

###Starting an activity for a result
Sometimes, you might want to receive a result from the activity that you start. In that case, start the activity by calling startActivityForResult() (instead of startActivity()). To then receive the result from the subsequent activity, implement the onActivityResult() callback method. When the subsequent activity is done, it returns a result in an Intent to your onActivityResult() method.


##Shutting Down an Activity
You can shut down an activity by calling its finish() method. You can also shut down a separate activity that you previously started by calling finishActivity().  In most cases, you should not explicitly finish an activity using these methods.


##Managing the Activity Lifecycle
An activity can exist in essentially three states:
Resumed
	The activity is in the foreground of the screen and has user focus. (This state is also sometimes referred to as "running".)
Paused
	Another activity is in the foreground and has focus, but this one is still visible. That is, another activity is visible on top of this one and that activity is partially transparent or doesn't cover the entire screen. A paused activity is completely alive (the Activity object is retained in memory, it maintains all state and member information, and remains attached to the window manager), but can be killed by the system in extremely low memory situations.
Stopped
	The activity is completely obscured by another activity (the activity is now in the "background"). A stopped activity is also still alive (the Activity object is retained in memory, it maintains all state and member information, but is not attached to the window manager). However, it is no longer visible to the user and it can be killed by the system when memory is needed elsewhere.

skeleton activity:
```
	public class ExampleActivity extends Activity {
		@Override
		public void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
			super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
			// The activity is being created.
		}
		@Override
		protected void onStart() {
			super.onStart();
			// The activity is about to become visible.
		}
		@Override
		protected void onResume() {
			super.onResume();
			// The activity has become visible (it is now "resumed").
		}
		@Override
		protected void onPause() {
			super.onPause();
			// Another activity is taking focus (this activity is about to be "paused").
		}
		@Override
		protected void onStop() {
			super.onStop();
			// The activity is no longer visible (it is now "stopped")
		}
		@Override
		protected void onDestroy() {
			super.onDestroy();
			// The activity is about to be destroyed.
		}
	}
```

Three Loops:
* The entire lifetime of an activity happens between the call to onCreate() and the call to onDestroy().
  perform setup of "global" state (such as defining layout), has a thread running in the background to download data from the network
* The visible lifetime of an activity happens between the call to onStart() and the call to onStop().
  you can register a BroadcastReceiver in onStart() to monitor changes that impact your UI, and unregister it in onStop() when the user can no longer see what you are displaying.
* The foreground lifetime of an activity happens between the call to onResume() and the call to onPause(). 
  the code should be lightweight.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pic for activity lifecycle.

###Saving activity state

A good way to test your application's ability to restore its state is to simply rotate the device so that the screen orientation changes. 

###Coordinating activities

Here's the order of operations that occur when Activity A starts Acivity B:
1. Activity A's onPause() method executes.
2. Activity B's onCreate(), onStart(), and onResume() methods execute in sequence. (Activity B now has user focus.)
3. Then, if Activity A is no longer visible on screen, its onStop() method executes.
	
This predictable sequence of lifecycle callbacks allows you to manage the transition of information from one activity to another. For example, if you must write to a database when the first activity stops so that the following activity can read it, then you should write to the database during onPause() instead of during onStop().



